hey there I'm syvia Perez I'm the
founder of Adon conversion.com and in
this quick video tutorial I'm going to
teach you how to write effective
response to search ad copy in three
simple steps my goal with this video is
that you're very familiar with what
responsive search ATS is how to approach
the writing process and really how to
avoid some common traps so with that
being said I'm going to be leveraging
this article as a visual reference
throughout this video so feel free to
check it out I'll have it Link in the
description box down below okay let's
get started with a simple framework here
the three-part RSA framework for writing
your copy and it's simply put is the
goal of headline one is to match intent
the goal of headline 2 is to
differentiate between the other results
and the goal of headline 3 is to provide
a clear call to action so here's what
this looks like in practice for us at ad
conversion so if you're not familiar we
teach B2B marketers how to skill paid
ads with courses taught by the world's
best practitioners for free so our whole
thing is showing up for course related
terms right so in this case I'm trying
to show for the keyword B2B Google ads
course so my H1 here says free B2B
Google ads course I've matched intent
and it really is that simple but it's
also that easy not to do so you want to
make sure you match intent with your H1
so that the Searcher as they're skimming
through the search results page you've
already answered the question in their
mind of is this relevant for me so
that's what the H1 does here is it
matches intent the H2 here now
differentiates my ad against all the
other ads and the organic listings so
here it says free B2B Google ads course
and then the H2 says no lesson longer
than 10 minutes now I've creative
differentiation so the goal of H1 match
intent the goal of H2 differentiate and
the goal of H3 which is not visible here
is to provide a clear call to action and
whenever you write your your h3s always
assume they're not visible because
Google's always testing different ad
formats and layouts I've seen a lot of
times now Google's also only showing the
H1 position and they're not even showing
the H2 or the H3 which es and flows the
importance of this RSA writing framework
because if you can only count on the H1
you better hope that you count on the
point that You' you've uh matched the
intent and the relevance of what the
person's searching for so let's dive
more into uh responsive search ads so
you can walk away really understanding
how to put this framework into practice
so let's I just want to kind of dive
deeper into each point that I just
talked about so the goal of headline one
is to match intent so like I mentioned
if you don't match that intent you know
when people are searching on Google
think of yourself you're skimming
through the results at lightning speed
and uh there's a really great quote here
by David Ogie that I think is relevant
here which is uh just to summarize on
the average five times as many people
read the headline as they read the body
copy when you've written your headline
you've spent 80 cents out of your dollar
when it comes to Google ads that 80
cents is your headline one position it
is by far the most position of all the
positions and the most visible of all
the positions within your responsive
search ad structure so make sure you
match that intent the goal of headline 2
is to differentiate between the other
results I want to show you some real
examples of why this framework is simple
but effective in terms of the net
outcome uh it's rough out there in the
search engine results page it did not
take me long to pull an example of
people doing this wrong so here's an
example of what not to do so I search
the keyword sock to compliance which is
a very competitive term and I can see
these three companies showed up secure
frame atera and work Viva and this is
what I I saw so for example secure frame
in the number one position their H1 here
matches search intent so good job there
but their H2 does not differentiate
they're actually being repetitive here
and they're wasting copy and space and
with 30 character headlines you don't
got a lot of room here and there's the
margin of error is pretty high so you
can here see here they put cost
effective sock to compliance I search
sock two compliance they mentioned stock
2 compliance in their H1 they matched my
intent then they wasted their H2 by
reiterating sock to compliance which
doesn't add anything new into the
conversation so that's where they messed
up when we look at a tera this is even
worse they don't match search intent or
differentiate I'm looking up sock 2
compliance I have no idea who a tera is
and they're saying we're officially sock
2 type certified like congratulations
but you're spending money on an ad uh to
tell me that you're sock 2 certified now
like how is that relevant to what I need
right I'm looking for sock 2 compliance
Solutions and then if you look at work
work Eva here on the bottom this is even
worse they have a CTA in the in the H1
position they're saying talk to an
expert Regulatory Compliance platform
they don't even mention uh sock to
compliance in their ad at all uh so this
is like in terms of an A B and C this is
like the the worst one so this is why
this this simple framework matters
because if they just follow this RSA
framework they would know H1 match
intent H2 differentiate just knowing
that alone the end outcome would be much
better for the search and you'll
differentiate yourself between the other
people right so moving on uh really
important to follow this simple
framework it's simple to do uh but it's
also easy not to do and like I mentioned
your H3 the goal here is to provide a
clear call to action nine times out of
10 your H3 is not going to serve so just
bear in mind that that is the case and
if you had to split test any one
variable in your RSA ad you're better
off split testing more of the H1s than
the h3s but it can be as simple as like
request a demo see for yourself learn
more today uh whatever the relevant call
to action is for your ad all right so
let's just depict the anatomy of a
responsive search ad in more detail here
so you can kind of see how this all
comes together now that we've talked
about this three-part RSA writing
framework so you have 30 character
headlines and 90 character uh character
descriptions and you can write up to 15
headlines when you're drafting your
responsive search ads so if you're not
familiar when it comes to responsive
search ads the way it works is Google
will mix and match all of your different
headlines and all of your different
descriptions using their machine
learning to try to understand what is
the optimal combination so that when
someone searches a search term and your
keyword triggers for it your ad combines
in the most optimal and effective way
possible it sounds amazing in theory and
I really wish it was as good as Google
makes it claim to be but the problem is
is is uh legibility right so the way
Google mixes and matches things often
times depending on how you write your
copy they'll mix and match things in a
way that it's not legibly visible like
going back to this example of things not
to do the reason sock 2 compliance
showed up in the position two and it was
repetitive and not necessary is because
they're most likely not pinning any
headlines and sock Tu compliance was
eligible to appear based on how Google
decided to mix and match for secure
frames ad which again if legibility is
not optimized performance will suffer
right because at the end of the day the
the algorithms are just looking at
things in terms of click the rates and
impressions but it's not taking to
consideration or at least in my
understanding experience it's not taking
into consideration effectively enough
legibility on how it's actually being
displayed to the user here too maybe
they have a relevant H1 and H2 but it
didn't show because if they're not
pinning positions and then here for sure
they're not pinning positions because
their CTA showed into position one when
that's the worst place to put your your
CTA right and it should be at least in
the position three or highlighted in the
description so this is why I highly
recommend that you pin your ad positions
so if you're not familiar you can pin
positions in your ad copy by clicking
the little pin icon and then you can pin
different spots so you can see here in
this little example I've got free B2B
advertising courses pinned to position
one so it's only going to show in that
spot uh top by the world's best pin to
position two and then start learning
today for free my call to action pinned
into position three so this forces
Google to show my ads Within These
specific positions so that I've
optimized for legibility now let's get
into if you should even pin headlines
and descriptions in Google ads because
if you've spoken with Google ads reps
maybe even some Google ads experts this
might be a little bit of a contradictory
piece of advice that you're hearing
right now and I'll explain my rationale
so my whole thing is legibility right at
the end of the day I want Google to be
as incredible as they as they preach you
know in terms of they take my ads my
headline combinations my descriptions
and they they mix it together and they
find this perfect perfect mix but in
reality it doesn't work that way and let
me just show you some examples right uh
here's a very well-known brand in the
email marketing space MailChimp they
have email marketing platform in their
H1 and email marketing in their H2 I can
know for a fact they're not pinning
positions and they're spending money on
their number one term email marketing
which is not cheap and this is what's
going on right like we don't want this
here's another example I search event
hosting platform and this brand popped
up and I can see online networking
platform in their H1 and online
networking events in their H2 repetitive
waste of characters waste of copy again
because of not pinning positions and
then finally this last one here I
searched sales prospecting Lucia popped
up and
uh their positions are just all out of
whack so they have your AI for sales
prospecting which is good and his intent
and then they put sales prospecting tips
Lucia there's no clear point of
differentiation here it's also like the
question is phrased incorrectly in terms
of the experience so again this goes to
if you're not controlling positions you
won't be able to control the experience
and the legibility now maybe one day
this information is no longer relevant
because Google has gotten that good but
in the time of this recording that
doesn't seem to be the reality we live
in so what I recommend that you do is
you take the Best of Both Worlds so you
take the best of legibility and and you
take the best of performance through
Google's algorithms and you combine them
together through strategic pinning so
let me show you what strategic pinning
looks like strategic pinning is where
you're going to create multiple headline
variations for that position and you're
going to pin them to that position so
what this might look like is this I
might write two to three variations of
headline one and I will position them in
the headline one spot so you can see
here I have two versions of headline one
free B2B advertising courses top B2B
adver in courses and I've pinned them
both to headline one and then I've done
the same thing for headline 2 and the
same thing for headline 3 by creating
two to three variations of headlines per
position it allows you to pin different
variations in that slot so now you're
allowing Google to test and mix
headlines and descriptions as they see
fit but you're also allowing to
guarantee a great user experience and
that legibility because you're not
letting Google just go crazy and just
put your you know something that was
intended for the the headline three to
be in the headline one and and you know
and vice versa so this is going to be
the unlock for you and what I recommend
you do in terms of implementing the
three-part RSA writing framework that we
talked about right so I've got three H1s
or two to 3 H1s matching intent 2 to 3
H2S differentiating and then 2 to 3 h3s
providing a clear call to action okay
moving on uh there's a there's something
that we have to address here which is AD
strength
so if you pin your ad headlines and your
descriptions you are going to get dinged
in terms of AD strength right so Google
does not like people pinning positions
if it was up to Google you would just
give them budget and they would take
care of everything and you walk away
right and when the day comes please take
my money and do that CU definitely I
want to get more time back but it's just
not where we live today so should you
care about ad strength uh and the the
short answer is no like ad strength has
no real bearing in terms of uh
deliverability and True Performance
impact it's just Google's way of
recommending their best practices to you
and then they give you a higher strength
score based on how many best practices
you follow and then a lower strength
score on the the amount of best
practices that you ignore it's really
that simple it has no bearing on if your
ad is going to be seen on the top of
Google or not that is about your ad rank
so there's a few ad strength M
misconceptions to be aware of that I
want to highlight here uh number one
like I mentioned is AD strength has zero
bearing on performance it's just a
predictor of it right Google just uses
this based on their best practices they
believe if you do these things they
predict and they think you will have
more performance number two having a
poor ad strength doesn't mean your ad
will actually perform well again it has
it's just it's just their
recommendations right ad rank is a
factor of your max bid your quality
score and your expected impact of B
extensions has nothing to do with ad
strength and then number three having ad
strength a poor ad strength doesn't mean
your ads won't get impressions again it
goes back to ad that is a factor of AD
rank which mainly comes down to your bid
strategy and and your quality score so
don't forget ultimately what's going to
determine your performance is how well
you're doing in terms of add rank which
has no relevance to add strength
although the names are similar I wonder
if that was intentional uh so so with
that being said and if if you still
don't believe me uh rightfully so you
can hear it from Google thems if you do
pin you can see this is what they
recommend so they're saying uh you know
there the reason they they advise
against pinning is they say pinning
reduces the overall number of headlines
or descriptions that being shown
therefore the less you pin the more
combinations you can create but remember
it's not necessarily about more it's
about better so you know you want to
strategically pin so you give Google the
flexibility to create multiple
combinations but in a smart way and you
can see here they say it themselves if
you must use pinning consider having
multiple unique assets pinned to the
same position which is exactly what I'm
telling you to do with strategic pinning
so I hope this has been helpful uh we
talked about three simple writing tips
for putting responsive search ads into
practice I've got some other Advanced
copy tips for you here around responsive
search ads as well uh that you can check
out in the article around Dynamic
keyword insertion and uh and leveraging
certain ad extensions I'll definitely R
link this in the description box down
below if you have any questions let me
know in the comments and if you want to
learn more about Google ads then check
out the videos in this playlist that I
think you'll find relevant and helpful
and if you want to learn more about uh
what we do at AC conversion and sign up
for our free on demand courses for B2B
advertising then check us out over at AC
conversion.com thanks so much for
watching I'll see you in the next one